# Aim of the echopen device

The ideal goal would be to get 15 medical quality images per second that can detect 1 mm defects while remaining low-cost.
If compromises have to be made it is necessary to maximize the quality of the image leaving to lose **a little** on the low-cost side.

All calculations (signal processing) must be done on the device. It is necessary to minimize the execution on the phone.


# Current Device

The current arrangements include:

* A 18 V supply generates several voltages, one of which is -100 V to operate the transducer. To excite it also requires a pulse with a MOSFET. However, it is necessary to curb the voltage with a T / R switch so as not to grill everything. A band-pass filter (analog or digital) makes it easier to detect envelopes.
* The system entries are:
	* The viewing angle of the image,
	* The line number of the image that impacts the framerate,
	* Depth of vision

* The Red Pitaya card handles the digital side:
	* ADC,
	* DAC

The ADC and DAC of the Red Pitaya are addressed from the FPGA of the card.


# Altran

The goal at the end of the collaboration would be to have about a hundred devices that can be clinically tested **in some countries** (with monetary standards binding as the United States or France).

## The needs that Altran could fill

There are therefore several needs that Altran could fill:

* In mechanics: with the probe head (with 3 transducers encapsulated in an oil bath, the liquid must have an impedance close to water),
* Analog: amplification (45 dB to 90-100 dB), electromagnetic shielding (noise protection) and transformer (wires will not do the job due to the movement induced by the transducer),
* An industrialization dossier,
* Medical certifications,
* Mechanical packaging (integration),
* Open source community project management,
* Someone who can manage the life cycle of a product
* Envelope detection: digital or analog

To seduce Altran you need:

* A block diagram,
* A document summarizing the needs and bottlenecks

The ideal ADC should allow to have 100 MHz (which is rather big). The ideal DAC should convert 100 KB / s.

Bottlenecks and the theoretical figures of the desired performance are absolutely necessary.

Altran should not lose sight of the **open source side** (they should not give us files usable only with proprietary software linked to very expensive licenses).


# Digital System and Analog System Comparisons

Digital system:

* numeric (manipulation of 0 and 1 only),
* Doppler (this is not in the specifications of the first version),
* more expensive,
* requires a 45 MHz ADC

Analog system:

* cheap,
* less flexible

# Proposed Approaches

Romain proposes a double approach:

* Acquisition developed and optimized for us in pure analog
* Non-low-cost digital approach combining an embedded system and an FPGA
* It is necessary to keep in mind the mechanical constraints (dimensions) of the box and the thermal questions related to the miniaturization

**The mechanics** fixes a large part of the constraints, it is necessary to design something industrializable.
It is also necessary to keep in mind the fact of being certified medical device (for example with the extensions of video file).